combat-mechanics/constructs-and-summons.md, before:

# Constructs and Summons

Certain skills create objects that stay on the field, which are called **constructs.**

Geo constructs are created by Geo characters, there is a **maximum of three geo constructs on-field at once**. The moment a fourth construct is created, the oldest construct placed will be destroyed. This occurs even if the fourth construct fails to be created due to invalid placement. There is one exception to the construct limit, which are the walls created by the Geo MC's Wake of Earth, they are still considered Geo constructs yet do not count towards the construct limit. They do not take any damage and cannot be destroyed, however, their creation can be prevented if obstructed by obstacles or Geo constructs.

Certain mobs, like Andrius, can turn a valid construct placement into an invalid one, destroying any existing constructs, now considered obstructed, in the process.

Constructs take damage when hit by enemies just like characters, unless it is specified in the skill description the defensive stats will match the character using the skill at a 1:1 ratio. There are also some that are considered invulnerable. Light constructs can be affected by vacuums, such as Jean's elemental skill and Anemo MC's elemental burst.

All temporary buffs are snapshotted when cast and will affect the construct for the entire duration.

## List of Constructs and Characteristics

| Character | Move | Defensive Stats | Extra |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Albedo | Skill | 1:1 | Geo |
| Amber | Skill | Scaling | Taunt, Light |
| Ganyu | Skill | Scaling | Taunt |
| Klee | Skill | Invulnerable | Light |
| Ningguang | Skill | Scaling | Geo |
| Mona | Skill | Invulnerable | Taunt |
| Traveler \(Geo\) | Skill | 1:1 | Geo, Climbable |
| Traveler \(Geo\) | Burst | 1:1 | Geo |
| Xiangling | Skill | Invulnerable | Light |
| Zhongli | Skill | 1:1 | Geo, Climbable |

## Evidence Vault

{% page-ref page="../../evidence/combat-mechanics/constructs-and-summons.md" %}

Commit message:

added missing character constructs
update constructs-and-summons.d
added Gorou, itto, kokomi, sayu

combat-mechanics/constructs-and-summons.md, after:

# Constructs and Summons

Certain skills create objects that stay on the field, which are called **constructs.**

## Geo Constructs

Geo constructs are created by Geo characters, there is a **maximum of three geo constructs on-field at once**. The moment a fourth construct is created, the oldest construct placed will be destroyed. This occurs even if the fourth construct fails to be created due to invalid placement. There is one exception to the construct limit, which are the walls created by the Geo Traveler's Wake of Earth, they are still considered Geo constructs yet do not count towards the construct limit. They do not take any damage and cannot be destroyed, however, their creation can be prevented if obstructed by obstacles or Geo constructs.

Certain mobs, like Andrius, can turn a valid construct placement into an invalid one, destroying any existing constructs, now considered obstructed, in the process.

Constructs take damage when hit by enemies just like characters, unless it is specified in the skill description the defensive stats will match the character using the skill at a 1:1 ratio. There are also some that are considered invulnerable.

All temporary buffs are snapshotted when cast and will affect the construct for the entire duration.

## List of Constructs and Characteristics

| Character | Talent | Defensive Stats | Notes |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Albedo | Skill | 1:1 | Geo |
| Amber | Skill | Scaling | Taunt, Light |
| Ganyu | Skill | Scaling | Taunt |
| Gorou | Skill | Invulnerable | - | 
| Itto | Skill | Scaling | Geo, Taunt | 
| Kokomi | Skill | Invulneratble | - | 
| Klee | Skill | Invulnerable | Light |
| Ningguang | Skill | Scaling | Geo |
| Mona | Skill | Invulnerable | Taunt |
| Sayu | Burst | Invulnerable | Light | 
| Traveler \(Geo\) | Skill | 1:1 | Geo, Climbable |
| Traveler \(Geo\) | Burst | 1:1 | Geo |
| Xiangling | Skill | Invulnerable | Light |
| Zhongli | Skill | 1:1 | Geo, Climbable |

* **Geo:** Construct  towards Geo construct limit. See [Geo Constructs](#geo-constructs).  
* **Taunt:** Construct continuously taunts nearby enemies into attacking it.  
* **Light:** Construct can be lifted by vacuums \(such as Jean's skill\)  
* **Climbable:** Construct can be climbed by character.

## Evidence Vault

{% page-ref page="../../evidence/combat-mechanics/constructs-and-summons.md" %}
