combat-mechanics/cooldowns.md, before:

# Cooldowns

Cooldowns are the time between being able to cast skills. This is calculated at the time of the skill cast. Multi-charge skills snapshot Cooldown Reduction at the time that the first charge goes on cooldown. This can effectively permanently maintain CDR for these abilities [1](../evidence/combat-mechanics/cooldowns.md#multi-charge-skills-snapshot-cdr)

## Cooldown Reduction

Cooldown reduction is available in the form of either flat amounts or percentage reduction.

* With sufficient Cooldown Reduction (Chongyun's Frost Field, Anemo Resonance, and 20% Elemental Burst Cooldown reduction from a Spiral Abyss card), some characters with deployable Elemental Bursts may have two Bursts on the field simultaneously.
  * Bennett
  * Geo Traveler 
  * Lisa
  * Xiangling

## List of Cooldown Reduction Sources

| Source | Talent\(s\) Affected | Amount | Condition |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Anemo Resonance | All Skills and Bursts | 5% | N/A |
| Thundering Fury | All Elemental Skills | 1 sec. | Trigger Overload, Superconduct, or Electro-Charge |
| Amber C4 | Explosive Puppet | 20% | N/A |
| Barbara C2 | Let The Show Begin | 15% | N/A |
| Bennett A1 | Passion Overload | 20% | N/A |
| Bennett A4 | Passion Overload | 50% | Inside Fantastic Voyage |
| Chongyun C2 | All Skills and Bursts | 15% | Inside Chongyun Field |
| Eula A4 | Icetide Vortex | Reset | Using Glacial Illumination |
| Eula C2 | Icetide Vortex, Hold Variant | 6 sec. | N/A | 
| Kazuha C1 | Chihayaburu | 10% | N/A |
| Kazuha C1 | Chihayaburu | Reset | Using Kazuha Slash | 
| Noelle A4 | Breastplate | 1 sec. | 4 Normal/Charged Attack hits |
| Ningguang C2 | Jade Screen | Reset | Jade Screen Shatter |
| Razor A1 | Claw and Thunder | 18% | N/A |
| Razor A1 | Claw and Thunder | Reset | Using Lightning Fang |
| Sucrose C4 | Anemohypostasis Creation | 1-7 sec. | 7 Normal/Charged Attack hits |
| Tartaglia C1 | Foul Legacy: Raging Tide | 20% | N/A |
| Tartaglia C6 | Foul Legacy: Raging Tide | Reset | Use Havoc: Obliteration in Melee stance |
| Traveler\(Geo\) A1 | Starfell Sword | 2 sec. | N/A |
| Xiao C6 | Lemniscatic Wind Cycling | Reset | 1s buff after hitting 2+ enemies with Plunge |

## Evidence Vault

{% page-ref page="../evidence/combat-mechanics/cooldowns.md" %}

Commit message:

updated cooldown reduction with missing chars
update cooldowns.md
added ayaka, raiden, sara, yoimiya, thoma, gorou, itto, yunjin

combat-mechanics/cooldowns.md, after:

# Cooldowns

Cooldowns are the time between being able to cast skills. This is calculated at the time of the skill cast. Multi-charge skills snapshot Cooldown Reduction at the time that the first charge goes on cooldown. This can effectively permanently maintain CDR for these abilities.<sup>[[1]](../evidence/combat-mechanics/cooldowns.md#multi-charge-skills-snapshot-cdr)</sup>

## Cooldown Reduction

Cooldown reduction is available in the form of either flat amounts or percentage reduction.

* With sufficient Cooldown Reduction (Chongyun's Frost Field, Anemo Resonance, and 20% Elemental Burst Cooldown reduction from a Spiral Abyss card), some characters with deployable Elemental Bursts may have two Bursts on the field simultaneously.
  * Bennett
  * Geo Traveler 
  * Lisa
  * Xiangling

## List of Cooldown Reduction Sources

| Source | Talent\(s\) Affected | Amount | Condition |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Anemo Resonance | All Skills and Bursts | 5% | N/A |
| Thundering Fury | All Elemental Skills | 1 sec. | Trigger Overload, Superconduct, or Electro-Charge |
| Ayaka C1 | Kamisato Art: Hyouka | 0.3s | When Ayaka's NA or CA deal Cryo DMG (50%). 0.1s CD
| Amber C4 | Explosive Puppet | 20% | N/A |
| Barbara C2 | Let The Show Begin | 15% | N/A |
| Bennett A1 | Passion Overload | 20% | N/A |
| Bennett A4 | Passion Overload | 50% | Inside Fantastic Voyage |
| Chongyun C2 | All Skills and Bursts | 15% | Inside Chongyun Field |
| Eula A4 | Icetide Vortex | Reset | Using Glacial Illumination |
| Eula C2 | Icetide Vortex, Hold Variant | 6 sec. | N/A |
| Gorou C1 | Inazuka All-Round Defense | 2s | When characters \(except Gorou\) deal Geo DMG within General's War Banner or General's Glory. 10s CD.
| Itto C2 | Royal Descent: Behold, Itto the Evil! | 1.5s - 4.5s | 1.5s per Geo party member | 
| Kazuha C1 | Chihayaburu | 10% | N/A |
| Kazuha C1 | Chihayaburu | Reset | Using Kazuha Slash | 
| Noelle A4 | Breastplate | 1 sec. | 4 Normal/Charged Attack hits |
| Ningguang C2 | Jade Screen | Reset | Jade Screen Shatter |
| Raiden C6 | All Elemental Bursts \(except Raiden\'s\) | 1s (5s Max) | When Raiden's Musou Isshin state attacks hit. 1s CD |
| Razor A1 | Claw and Thunder | 18% | N/A |
| Razor A1 | Claw and Thunder | Reset | Using Lightning Fang |
| Sara C1 | Tengu Stormcall | 1s | When Tengu Juurai grants ATK Bonus or hits. 3s CD | 
| Sucrose C4 | Anemohypostasis Creation | 1-7 sec. | 7 Normal/Charged Attack hits |
| Tartaglia C1 | Foul Legacy: Raging Tide | 20% | N/A |
| Tartaglia C6 | Foul Legacy: Raging Tide | Reset | Use Havoc: Obliteration in Melee stance |
| Thoma C1 | Blazing Blessing & Crimson Ooyoroi | 3s | When a character \(except Thoma\) protected by Thoma's Blazing Barrier is attacked |
| Traveler\(Geo\) A1 | Starfell Sword | 2 sec. | N/A |
| Yoimiya C4 | Niwabi Fire-Dance | 1.2s | When Aurous Blaze triggers and explosion | 
| Yunjin C1 | Opening Flourish | 18% | N/A |
| Xiao C6 | Lemniscatic Wind Cycling | Reset | 1s buff after hitting 2+ enemies with Plunge |

## Evidence Vault

{% page-ref page="../evidence/combat-mechanics/cooldowns.md" %}
