general-mechanics/resources-and-efficiency.md, before:

---
description: For entries related to resources or resource efficiency.
---

# Resources and Efficiency

## Resource Efficiency

### Resin to Stardust Exchange Comparison

Blue \(XP\) leylines are more stardust-efficient than Gold \(Mora\) leylines.

* Exp Leyline: 65.33 Stardust/Resin
* Mora Leyline: 60 Stardust/Resin
* Magic Crystal Ore: 60 Stardust/Resin

### Artifact EXP Efficiency

* 2-star artifact vendors are, on average, 70.99% more EXP per resin than farming artifact domains for artifact EXP.  
* NPC shops sell 12.6K artifact XP worth of 2* artifacts for 30K Mora.  
* The mora cost of buying out the NPC shops is equal to 360 realm currency.  
* NPC shop artifacts are more worth to buy than sanctifying essence.  

### Crafting refund vs increase passives

Eula and albedo's passive has a 10% chance to give more materials while Xingqiu and Mona has a 25% chance to refund a part of the materials used. By simulating a very large number of crafts we found that Eula/Albedo's passive is actually 10% better than than Xingqiu/Mona. If you take into account the initial talent books for the comparison then the difference is a whopping 1%.

### Realm Currency Exchange Rate

The most Resin-efficient purchase order at the Realm Depot is to claim the Magic Enhancement Ores every week, then the Wits, and then the Mora \(assuming that the Traveler has already claimed the Transient Resin if they wish to\).

For Travelers who wish to maximize Stardust and minimize Realm Currency: target Magic Enhancement Ores -&gt; EXP -&gt; Mora at Paimon's Bargains in the Shop. Inverse this priority \(Mora -&gt; EXP -&gt; Magic Enhancement Ores\) if Travelers wish to maximize Realm Currency and minimize Stardust.

### Battle Pass Resin Value

The $10 BP gives rewards worth approximately 1800 Resins = 45 Condensed Resin = 30 Fragile Resins in the form of EXP books, Mora, and talent books.  
* This does not include the Weapon Enhancement Ores, Fates, Primogems, and BP exclusive Weapons.

### Weekly BP Cap During Launch Week  

Reaching BP Weekly EXP limit during launch week requires sacrifices.  
Possible sacrifices are:
* Spend a total of 500,000 Mora.
  * It's easy to spend it if you're planning to level anything.
* Purchase 2 items from the Teapot Traveling Salesman in another player's Serenitea Pot.
  * Requires sacrificing possible resin gains from purchasing Mora/fodder/EXP for Realm Currency - it's 80 Realm Currency in order to reach it.
* Use a total of 1200 Original Resin.
  * Only NA is capable of doing this and not even by a huge margin - you can use up to 1237 resin assuming perfect server maintenance end and x2 Transient Resin.
  * If you're not a hardcore player, you need to either make a refill with Primogems or utilize Fragile Resins.

## Food 
* Cheapest 3\* instant heal \(assuming 20k HP\): Mondstadt Hashbrowns, 8.57 Health/Mora
* Most Mora-efficient heal \(assuming 20k HP\): Grilled Tiger Fish, 11.23 Health/Mora
* Cheapest Revive: Teyvat Fried Egg, 180 Mora if bought from restaurant
* Most Mora-efficient sprinting stamina reduction: Lotus Seed and Bird Egg Soup, 850 Mora
* As other effects such as ATK buffs and Crit Rate buffs cannot be stacked, it is generally advised to use the best possible food in those categories rather than using the most mora-efficient food.
* Character with extra dish passive can duplicate their specialties while cooking. 

## Destroy Mechanics

The destroy function in your inventory is the only way to mass delete/destroy items in the game other than the Parametric Transformer. However, the function itself is limited and the resources gained from destroying items are not worth compared to using them as fodder.

Destroying Artifacts will give mora equal to the amount of artifact XP. While destroying weapons, will give a number of 1 star enhancement ores based on the rarity of the weapon \(3 for 3 stars, 2 for 2 stars, 1 for 1 star\).

### Destroying +0 Artifacts:

| Rarity | Artifact XP | Mora from Destroying |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 4 Star | 2520 | 2520 |
| 3 Star | 1260 | 1260 |
| 2 Star | 840 | 840 |
| 1 Star | 420 | 420 |

### Destroying Level 1 Weapons:

| Rarity | Weapon XP | Crystal XP from Destroying |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 3 Star | 1800 | 1200 |
| 2 Star | 1200 | 800 |
| 1 Star | 600 | 400 |

### Can't be Destroyed:
* 5\* artifacts
* 5\* or 4\* Weapons
* Refined 3\* weapons
* Character Development Materials
* Food \(except apples and sunsettia\)
* Gadgets 
* Quest Items
* Precious Items

Certain material items can be destroyed, but they don't give anything when destroyed, the same goes for apples and sunsettias too. However, not all material items can be destroyed, as of now, there is no consistent reason as to why.

## Overworld Farming
* Crabs that you approach and fail to pick up will respawn after leaving their render distances and coming back.
* There exists an investigation daily limit of 100. After that, you cannot "investigate" to pick up items anymore. This limit resets at daily reset.
  * It is possible to go beyond this number by not leaving the rendered zone after picking up the 100th investigation spot.
* There is a random event daily limit of 10. After that, you receive no reward when completing random events that day.

### Artifact Drop Spots
There are two types of artifact spots:  
- "No mora" class - Spots from this class never drop Mora and always drop a single piece of artifact with 65% chance it being white artifact and 35% chance for green.
- "Has mora" class - Spots from this class always drop some amount of mora (200 on average), also the always drop white artifacts (1.5 on average) and never drop green artifacts.

### Ore Farming
- 1.2 ore per average seems consistent for all types of ores (excluding starsilver which there are currently not enough statistics). There are some fluctations due to low sample size for Iron and White Iron and due to the event of 3 chunks having very low probability. But overlall seems consistent. They sometimes drop two chunks, sometimes three and never one.
- Iron, White and Crystal chunk are all possible drops. 
- Check the Evidence Vault for more data

### Bush Droprates
Bushes have a 8% chance to drop loot, they will drop:
* Lizards
* Eggs
* Masutakes
* Fireflies \(nightime only\)
* This information can be used together with the[ infinite spawning bushes bug](../evidence/general-mechanics/bugs.md#infinite-bushes) to farm these materials.

### Bane-Duki Respawn
Some bake-danukis that end up with investigation spot respawn. They seem to follow common enemies respawn pattern (12h), however it's still unclear.

## Resource Limits

### Capped Enhancement Ores  
These are the consequences of having capped (9999) Mystic Enhancement Ores:

* Abyss rewards are sent to the mail and cannot be collected.

* Mystic Enhancement Ore from the Battle Pass cannot be collected.

* Completing a random event will not yield any Ore rewards but will still give companionship EXP and Mora.

* Mystic Enhancement Ore cannot be crafted at the blacksmith.

* Completing a daily commission, however, CAN and WILL give Mystic Enhancement Ore, even exceeding the 9999 cap.

### Maximum Original Resin  
Original Resin can go past the cap of 160, up to a cap of around 2000 Resin.  

### Crafted Food Item Limit  
Crafted food items have a limit of 2000 per unique item.

## Tree Mechanics
* You can only collect 2,000 of any specific wood per day. This limit resets at server reset and cannot be reset by relogging/teleporting.

### Lumberjack Tierlist

The most efficient units for tree chopping:

* Thoma
* Keqing
* Rosaria
* Xiao  

Details: [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Q4HKzkaw7YFNZyIJSjRINZJonFe1kiDwz1dEbpcZiNk/edit#gid=937070148)

### Tree Chopping Memory Mechanics

The game can only remember the 10 most recently-struck trees at a time. After the 11th tree is hit, the 1st tree's state is wiped from the memory and can be harvested again. However, if a previously harvested tree is struck again **BEFORE** this, it will be moved back into the sequence as the most recently updated item. Partial harvests also count the same as full harvest or re-harvest.

### Unholy Harvesting Methods

Attacks that shake untouched trees, including enemy attacks, can allow them to be harvested using a small number of Elemental Skills in a short window. We explored this to find several things.

* Shaking a tree marks it as a target for a wider variety of skills. Some attacks, like Mona's E, can only shake already-marked trees, and do nothing.
* All physical damage sources & an odd assortment of character skills \(Jean's E, Kaeya's Q\) can shake/mark.
* Marks last a very short time.
* Some skills and Overloads can harvest. Characters like Bennett and Xingqiu can harvest using E skills, while Razor can harvest with E only if he uses Overload. 
* Melee normal attacks can sometimes whiff on a tree. This still marks the tree and enables harvesting via Elemental Skill.

## **Evidence Vault:**

{% page-ref page="../../evidence/general-mechanics/resources-and-efficiency.md" %}

Commit message:

Added blurb for capped-wood-register

general-mechanics/resources-and-efficiency.md, after:

---
description: For entries related to resources or resource efficiency.
---

# Resources and Efficiency

## Resource Efficiency

### Resin to Stardust Exchange Comparison

Blue \(XP\) leylines are more stardust-efficient than Gold \(Mora\) leylines.

* Exp Leyline: 65.33 Stardust/Resin
* Mora Leyline: 60 Stardust/Resin
* Magic Crystal Ore: 60 Stardust/Resin

### Artifact EXP Efficiency

* 2-star artifact vendors are, on average, 70.99% more EXP per resin than farming artifact domains for artifact EXP.  
* NPC shops sell 12.6K artifact XP worth of 2* artifacts for 30K Mora.  
* The mora cost of buying out the NPC shops is equal to 360 realm currency.  
* NPC shop artifacts are more worth to buy than sanctifying essence.  

### Crafting refund vs increase passives

Eula and albedo's passive has a 10% chance to give more materials while Xingqiu and Mona has a 25% chance to refund a part of the materials used. By simulating a very large number of crafts we found that Eula/Albedo's passive is actually 10% better than than Xingqiu/Mona. If you take into account the initial talent books for the comparison then the difference is a whopping 1%.

### Realm Currency Exchange Rate

The most Resin-efficient purchase order at the Realm Depot is to claim the Magic Enhancement Ores every week, then the Wits, and then the Mora \(assuming that the Traveler has already claimed the Transient Resin if they wish to\).

For Travelers who wish to maximize Stardust and minimize Realm Currency: target Magic Enhancement Ores -&gt; EXP -&gt; Mora at Paimon's Bargains in the Shop. Inverse this priority \(Mora -&gt; EXP -&gt; Magic Enhancement Ores\) if Travelers wish to maximize Realm Currency and minimize Stardust.

### Battle Pass Resin Value

The $10 BP gives rewards worth approximately 1800 Resins = 45 Condensed Resin = 30 Fragile Resins in the form of EXP books, Mora, and talent books.  
* This does not include the Weapon Enhancement Ores, Fates, Primogems, and BP exclusive Weapons.

### Weekly BP Cap During Launch Week  

Reaching BP Weekly EXP limit during launch week requires sacrifices.  
Possible sacrifices are:
* Spend a total of 500,000 Mora.
  * It's easy to spend it if you're planning to level anything.
* Purchase 2 items from the Teapot Traveling Salesman in another player's Serenitea Pot.
  * Requires sacrificing possible resin gains from purchasing Mora/fodder/EXP for Realm Currency - it's 80 Realm Currency in order to reach it.
* Use a total of 1200 Original Resin.
  * Only NA is capable of doing this and not even by a huge margin - you can use up to 1237 resin assuming perfect server maintenance end and x2 Transient Resin.
  * If you're not a hardcore player, you need to either make a refill with Primogems or utilize Fragile Resins.

## Food 
* Cheapest 3\* instant heal \(assuming 20k HP\): Mondstadt Hashbrowns, 8.57 Health/Mora
* Most Mora-efficient heal \(assuming 20k HP\): Grilled Tiger Fish, 11.23 Health/Mora
* Cheapest Revive: Teyvat Fried Egg, 180 Mora if bought from restaurant
* Most Mora-efficient sprinting stamina reduction: Lotus Seed and Bird Egg Soup, 850 Mora
* As other effects such as ATK buffs and Crit Rate buffs cannot be stacked, it is generally advised to use the best possible food in those categories rather than using the most mora-efficient food.
* Character with extra dish passive can duplicate their specialties while cooking. 

## Destroy Mechanics

The destroy function in your inventory is the only way to mass delete/destroy items in the game other than the Parametric Transformer. However, the function itself is limited and the resources gained from destroying items are not worth compared to using them as fodder.

Destroying Artifacts will give mora equal to the amount of artifact XP. While destroying weapons, will give a number of 1 star enhancement ores based on the rarity of the weapon \(3 for 3 stars, 2 for 2 stars, 1 for 1 star\).

### Destroying +0 Artifacts:

| Rarity | Artifact XP | Mora from Destroying |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 4 Star | 2520 | 2520 |
| 3 Star | 1260 | 1260 |
| 2 Star | 840 | 840 |
| 1 Star | 420 | 420 |

### Destroying Level 1 Weapons:

| Rarity | Weapon XP | Crystal XP from Destroying |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 3 Star | 1800 | 1200 |
| 2 Star | 1200 | 800 |
| 1 Star | 600 | 400 |

### Can't be Destroyed:
* 5\* artifacts
* 5\* or 4\* Weapons
* Refined 3\* weapons
* Character Development Materials
* Food \(except apples and sunsettia\)
* Gadgets 
* Quest Items
* Precious Items

Certain material items can be destroyed, but they don't give anything when destroyed, the same goes for apples and sunsettias too. However, not all material items can be destroyed, as of now, there is no consistent reason as to why.

## Overworld Farming
* Crabs that you approach and fail to pick up will respawn after leaving their render distances and coming back.
* There exists an investigation daily limit of 100. After that, you cannot "investigate" to pick up items anymore. This limit resets at daily reset.
  * It is possible to go beyond this number by not leaving the rendered zone after picking up the 100th investigation spot.
* There is a random event daily limit of 10. After that, you receive no reward when completing random events that day.

### Artifact Drop Spots
There are two types of artifact spots:  
- "No mora" class - Spots from this class never drop Mora and always drop a single piece of artifact with 65% chance it being white artifact and 35% chance for green.
- "Has mora" class - Spots from this class always drop some amount of mora (200 on average), also the always drop white artifacts (1.5 on average) and never drop green artifacts.

### Ore Farming
- 1.2 ore per average seems consistent for all types of ores (excluding starsilver which there are currently not enough statistics). There are some fluctations due to low sample size for Iron and White Iron and due to the event of 3 chunks having very low probability. But overlall seems consistent. They sometimes drop two chunks, sometimes three and never one.
- Iron, White and Crystal chunk are all possible drops. 
- Check the Evidence Vault for more data

### Bush Droprates
Bushes have a 8% chance to drop loot, they will drop:
* Lizards
* Eggs
* Masutakes
* Fireflies \(nightime only\)
* This information can be used together with the[ infinite spawning bushes bug](../evidence/general-mechanics/bugs.md#infinite-bushes) to farm these materials.

### Bane-Duki Respawn
Some bake-danukis that end up with investigation spot respawn. They seem to follow common enemies respawn pattern (12h), however it's still unclear.

## Resource Limits

### Capped Enhancement Ores  
These are the consequences of having capped (9999) Mystic Enhancement Ores:

* Abyss rewards are sent to the mail and cannot be collected.

* Mystic Enhancement Ore from the Battle Pass cannot be collected.

* Completing a random event will not yield any Ore rewards but will still give companionship EXP and Mora.

* Mystic Enhancement Ore cannot be crafted at the blacksmith.

* Completing a daily commission, however, CAN and WILL give Mystic Enhancement Ore, even exceeding the 9999 cap.

### Maximum Original Resin  
Original Resin can go past the cap of 160, up to a cap of around 2000 Resin.  

### Crafted Food Item Limit  
Crafted food items have a limit of 2000 per unique item.

## Tree Mechanics
* You can only collect 2,000 of any specific wood per day. This limit resets at server reset and cannot be reset by relogging/teleporting.

### Lumberjack Tierlist

The most efficient units for tree chopping:

* Thoma
* Keqing
* Rosaria
* Xiao  

Details: [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Q4HKzkaw7YFNZyIJSjRINZJonFe1kiDwz1dEbpcZiNk/edit#gid=937070148)

### Tree Chopping Memory Mechanics

The game can only remember the 10 most recently-struck trees at a time. After the 11th tree is hit, the 1st tree's state is wiped from the memory and can be harvested again. However, if a previously harvested tree is struck again **BEFORE** this, it will be moved back into the sequence as the most recently updated item. Partial harvests also count the same as full harvest or re-harvest. Tree types that have been capped still contribute to the chopping memory, allowing for very unbalanced hybrid routes (like 1 cuihua to 10 cedar) to function even if one of the types have been capped.

### Unholy Harvesting Methods

Attacks that shake untouched trees, including enemy attacks, can allow them to be harvested using a small number of Elemental Skills in a short window. We explored this to find several things.

* Shaking a tree marks it as a target for a wider variety of skills. Some attacks, like Mona's E, can only shake already-marked trees, and do nothing.
* All physical damage sources & an odd assortment of character skills \(Jean's E, Kaeya's Q\) can shake/mark.
* Marks last a very short time.
* Some skills and Overloads can harvest. Characters like Bennett and Xingqiu can harvest using E skills, while Razor can harvest with E only if he uses Overload. 
* Melee normal attacks can sometimes whiff on a tree. This still marks the tree and enables harvesting via Elemental Skill.

## **Evidence Vault:**

{% page-ref page="../../evidence/general-mechanics/resources-and-efficiency.md" %}
